=========================================
#                 MOLGW
=========================================

Many-body perturbation theory for small to medium molecules


## Getting started

This is a minimalist README file.
Many more details can be found ~/doc/molgw_manual.html


##Features

MOLGW implements the following schemes:
- Hartree-Fock
- LDA (PW, VWN)
- GGA (PBE, PW91, BLYP)
- potential-only meta-GGA (BJ, RPP)
- hybrid functionals (PBE0, B3LYP)
- screened hybrid functionals (HSE03, HSE06)
- HF+GW
- DFT+GW
- Hybrid+GW
- QPscGW
- HF+MP2
- DFT+MP2
- Hybrid+MP2
- QPscMP2
- CI for 2 electrons 
- TD-HF
- TD-DFT
- BSE


##Installation

MOLGW needs Fortran 2003 and C compilers.
The machine dependent variables should be set in file `~molgw/src/my_machine.arch`
Examples for this file are given in the folder `~molgw/config/`.
Then
`cd ~molgw/src`
`make`

- BLAS and LAPACK linear algebra libraries are required.
- libint is required:
https://sourceforge.net/projects/libint/files/latest/download?source=files
- libxc is required: (version >= 2.2.0) for DFT calculations
http://www.tddft.org/programs/octopus/down.php?file=libxc/libxc-2.2.2.tar.gz


##Basis sets
Basis sets can be obtained from https://bse.pnl.gov/bse/portal
The file can be generated from a NWChem file using the script
`~molgw/util/basis_nwchem2molgw.py B_aug-cc-pVDZ.nwchem`


##Usage
The basis file needs to be located in the working directory.

`./molgw helium.in > helium.out`

Example input files can be found in `~molgw/tests/`


##To be done
- pseudopotentials (e.g. ECP or Goedecker flavor)


##Known issues
- QPscGW scf loop is quite unstable for large basis sets, use a low alpha (<= 0.50), use a large eta
- TD-DFT GGA kernel can induce very large numerical values which limits the numerical stability and breaks some comparison with other codes.
Especially when compiling with gfortran/gcc. ifort/icc behaves much better.


##Information for developers

Besides the calls to the libint library, MOLGW is entirely written in Fortran2003.
The source files can be found in src/.

### Coding Rules
The Fortran intent in/out/inout is compulsory for the arguments of a subroutine.
One character variable names are strictly forbidden.

The careful developer should try
- to follow the overall layout and the conventions of the code (double space indent, separation of the list of variables arguments/local, loop counters naming, etc.)
- to protect the data contained in a module with private or protected attribute as much as possible.
- to avoid cascading object access, such as a%b%c (Create methods instead)
- to hide the MPI statements with a generic wrapper in subroutine src/m_mpi.f90.
- to hide the SCALAPACK statements with a generic wrapper in subroutine src/m_scalapack.f90 (not implemented as of today).

### Automatically generated files
A few fortran source files are generated by python scripts:
- src/basis_path.f90
- src/revision.f90 
are generated by src/prepare_sourcecode.py (that is run at each "make" operation)
and
- src/input_variables.f90
is generated by util/input_variables.py  .
Do not attempt to edit the fortran file. You should rather edit the python scripts.

To add a new input variable, append a new variable object in the python list in util/input_variables.py.
Then execute the script. This will generate automatically the Fortran source file src/input_variables.f90
and the HTML documentation file doc/input_variables.html.

### Adding a new source file
It requires the manual editing of the src/Makefile.
Please check carefully the dependence so to compile and add it to the right "level" of the Makefile.
The code should compile properly in parallel with "make -j".


##Author

Fabien Bruneval

Service de Recherches de Métallurgie Physique
CEA Saclay, F-91191 Gif-sur-Yvette, France
